# Journal-week-5
Here it is, week number five, new phase!! I tried to give a more specific essay, shorter than the others, so I hope you like my resume of my resume!

## What I learned: October 26- October 30 edition

Alright, I’ll try to take a different approach to this essay! This week was so different from the previous ones, perhaps because of the lack of videos and lectures (not complaining). Or perhaps because of the start of the new phase...I can just say, wow! I must admit, I still feel a little scared, even after 1 week of this. Working with Isaac has been a great plus, it helped us get the correct direction to the project. This came with some new tools, like Jhipster, a great platform that gives you the front end and back end basics of a project. The “down” part of this new platform, at least for me, is that it is an unknown tool. I know, it sounds a little redundant, but it's true! I’m fairly new to the technologies that we’re working with, especially the Javascript part. Of course, it’s not an excuse or a cry for help, it’s just that I’m still amazed by all the things that I’m yet to know!
I guess that my learning is going to be applied to my everyday work, because they-re tools for a developer’s job!

First of all, the use of Git and Github. While organizing the project, we were wondering how we were going to organize the issues and activities of the project. When Isaac (Half teammate, half product owner) told us about this, we immediately saw why it was recommended by him. The fact that it also has the Github Project feature, it became so easy to order all of the issues.
Talking about the issues, at first we had to propose the main features of the project. After that, we had to make these BIG features into smaller and smaller requests to do. This included doing the first main document of the project.
The document at times was a little tedious, because it’s information and descriptions of something that you just have a vague idea of. Luckily, Isaac shared with us a little technical writing course. The project is a very exciting subject for me, the bets! No, I’m not an addict to bets, but from time to time I like to gamble with my friends on sports, and that’s the reason that I personally understood the idea that our client had in mind!

Now, again with the platform of front and back end: in the back end part, the platform gives Java as the main language to use, while in the front end department you get to choose between Angular or React (Javascript). I have to admit, there were times where I had a hard time following the conversation, because of many concepts that I rarely heard before. This fear of not knowing things was combined with the feeling that the project was the size of a monster: the longer I thought about it, more and more things started to get in my mind, thinking about how we could implement them. After this little scene of mine, I got relaxed a little bit, and started to focus on how I had to check on the assignments that I got! It’s not about doing something terribly big, it’s more about just doing baby steps, until you get your project up and running!

A good part of Jhipster is that it’s well documented, at least on the basics and tutorials. Following some videos, reading some of the lectures that the main page has, it starts to give you the feel that you can actually control it, and do different kinds of applications by just discovering things yourself! Sadly, the project doesn’t have much time (one month to complete), so the speed of how I learn things will be crucial to this phase...I really hope that what I do learn in this month stick with me, and doesn’t become part of the pile of “I don’t need it anymore” information.
All and all, I’m still learning all of these tools. It feels complicated and tedious at times, because sometimes I feel that the questions asked go with a tone like “it’s so easy, so the answer is obviously...”, when in reality (for me), it doesn’t feel completely like that! Of course, I don’t intend to say that just because I worked a few days with the tools I’m going to be a great expert...what I’m saying is that I can’t wait until I have the expertise of these kinds of subjects! Maybe I’ll learn in 5 more years, maybe more, maybe less than that, but overall, I’m loving these subjects.

That's it frome me! As always, if you have any questions, let me know!

